# Convolutional Neural Network for 3D Models

The purpose of this project was to build a neural network capable classifying LIDAR point clouds in realtime. The convolutional neural network implemented in this project is capable of classifying 3D binary matrixes, with the extended ability to classify 3D meshes through a voxelization preprocessor. Unlike computer vision solutions for classifying objects, this approach is capable of classifying objects with full volumetric context in realtime.

## Background

The 3D model convolutional neural network is based on the same concepts used in image classifying convolutional neural networks adpated to 3D inputs. This was implemented with 3D convolutional and max pooling layers included in the [Lasagne](https://github.com/Lasagne/Lasagne) library.


## Accomplishments

The neural network is fairly capable of correctly classifying the 3D models provided in the ShapeNet dataset. However, the trained network I included lacks somewhat in this regard given it was only trained up to 1 epoch due to my limited time and resources. The network should also not have much trouble classifying point clouds generated by LIDAR sensors, if properly trained with a large point cloud dataset. However, I don't have access to a proper LIDAR sensor capable of generating point clouds or a large data set of LIDAR-generated point clouds.

## Installation

I did not include any dependencies or deployment instructions given that the network takes a significant amount of resources to train and test (which would likely be difficult for grading). Furthermore, the python libraries required required for this project are somewhat difficult to install on machines without admin access, which would make deployment on UTCS linux machines diffuclt. It is possible to host the classifier from my machine for testing. If necessary, please contact me to host a trained version of the network online for proper testing.

## Configuration

| Layer           | Output Shape    | Filter Shape |
| ----------------| ----------------| -------------|
| input           | (1, 32, 32, 32) |              |
| convolution     | (32, 14, 14, 14)| (5,5,5)      |
| dropout         | (32, 14, 14, 14)|              |
| convolution     | (32, 12, 12, 12)| (3,3,3)      |
| max pooling     | (32, 6, 6, 6)   | (2,2,2)      |
| dropout         | (32, 6, 6, 6)   |              |
| fully connected | (128)           | (128)        |
| dropout         |	(128)           |              |
| fully connected |	(40)            | (40)         |

## References

- [Learning Approach to 3D Object Representation for Classification](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-540-89689-0_31)
- [Learning a Predictable and Generative Vector Representation for Objects](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1603.08637.pdf)
- [ShapeNet](https://www.shapenet.org/)
